https://youtu.be/5DfFaAl1Wmc

Lesson outline
Object-oriented programming syntax
Procedural vs. object-oriented programming
Classes, objects, methods and attributes
Coding a class
Magic methods
Inheritance
Using object-oriented programming to make a Python package
Making a package
Tour of scikit-learn source code
Putting your package on PyPi
Why object-oriented programming?
Object-oriented programming has a few benefits over procedural programming, which is the programming style you most likely first learned. As you'll see in this lesson:

Object-oriented programming allows you to create large, modular programs that can easily expand over time.
Object-oriented programs hide the implementation from the end user.
Consider Python packages like Scikit-learn, pandas, and NumPy. These are all Python packages built with object-oriented programming. Scikit-learn, for example, is a relatively large and complex package built with object-oriented programming. This package has expanded over the years with new functionality and new algorithms.

When you train a machine learning algorithm with Scikit-learn, you don't have to know anything about how the algorithms work or how they were coded. You can focus directly on the modeling.

Here's an example taken from the Scikit-learn website:

from sklearn import svm
X = [[0, 0], [1, 1]]
y = [0, 1]
clf = svm.SVC()
clf.fit(X, y)  
How does Scikit-learn train the SVM model? You don't need to know because the implementation is hidden with object-oriented programming. If the implementation changes, you (as a user of Scikit-learn) might not ever find out. Whether or not you should understand how SVM works is a different question.

In this lesson, you'll practice the fundamentals of object-oriented programming. By the end of the lesson, you'll have built a Python package using object-oriented programming.
Lesson files
This lesson uses classroom workspaces that contain all of the files and functionality you need. You can also find the files in the data scientist nanodegree term 2 GitHub repo.

--------------

Procedural versus object-oriented programming

https://youtu.be/psXD_J8FnCQ

Objects are defined by characteristics and actions
Here is a reminder of what is a characteristic and what is an action.

https://video.udacity-data.com/topher/2018/July/5b511a90_screen-shot-2018-07-19-at-4.05.25-pm/screen-shot-2018-07-19-at-4.05.25-pm.png

Characteristics and actions in English grammar
You can also think about characteristics and actions is in terms of English grammar. A characteristic corresponds to a noun and an action corresponds to a verb.

Let's pick something from the real world: a dog. Some characteristics of the dog include the dog's weight, color, breed, and height. These are all nouns. Some actions a dog can take include to bark, to run, to bite, and to eat. These are all verbs.


-----------------------------

Class, object, method, and attribute

https://youtu.be/yvVMJt09HuA

Object-oriented programming (OOP) vocabulary
Class: A blueprint consisting of methods and attributes.
Object: An instance of a class. It can help to think of objects as something in the real world like a yellow pencil, a small dog, or a blue shirt. However, as you'll see later in the lesson, objects can be more abstract.
Attribute: A descriptor or characteristic. Examples would be color, length, size, etc. These attributes can take on specific values like blue, 3 inches, large, etc.
Method: An action that a class or object could take.
OOP: A commonly used abbreviation for object-oriented programming.
Encapsulation: One of the fundamental ideas behind object-oriented programming is called encapsulation: you can combine functions and data all into a single entity. In object-oriented programming, this single entity is called a class. Encapsulation allows you to hide implementation details, much like how the scikit-learn package hides the implementation of machine learning algorithms.
In English, you might hear an attribute described as a property, description, feature, quality, trait, or characteristic. All of these are saying the same thing.

Here is a reminder of how a class, an object, attributes, and methods relate to each other.

https://video.udacity-data.com/topher/2018/July/5b511ad5_screen-shot-2018-07-19-at-4.06.55-pm/screen-shot-2018-07-19-at-4.06.55-pm.png

---------------------------

Object-oriented programming syntax
In this video, you'll see what a class and object look like in Python. In the next section, you'll have the chance to play around with the code. Finally, you'll write your own class.

https://youtu.be/Y8ZVw1LHI8E

Function versus method
In the video above, at 1:44, the dialogue mistakenly calls init a function rather than a method. Why is init not a function?

A function and a method look very similar. They both use the def keyword. They also have inputs and return outputs. The difference is that a method is inside of a class whereas a function is outside of a class.
What is self?
If you instantiate two objects, how does Python differentiate between these two objects?

shirt_one = Shirt('red', 'S', 'short-sleeve', 15)
shirt_two = Shirt('yellow', 'M', 'long-sleeve', 20)
That's where self comes into play. If you call the change_price method on shirt_one, how does Python know to change the price of shirt_one and not of shirt_two?

shirt_one.change_price(12)
Behind the scenes, Python is calling the change_price method:

    def change_price(self, new_price):

        self.price = new_price
Self tells Python where to look in the computer's memory for the shirt_one object. Then, Python changes the price of the shirt_one object. When you call the change_price method, shirt_one.change_price(12), self is implicitly passed in.

The word self is just a convention. You could actually use any other name as long as you are consisten, but you should use self to avoid confusing people.

-------------------------

https://youtu.be/NcgDIWm6iBA

Set and get methods
The last part of the video mentioned that accessing attributes in Python can be somewhat different than in other programming languages like Java and C++. This section goes into further detail.

The Shirt class has a method to change the price of the shirt: shirt_one.change_price(20). In Python, you can also change the values of an attribute with the following syntax:

shirt_one.price = 10
shirt_one.price = 20
shirt_one.color = 'red'
shirt_one.size = 'M'
shirt_one.style = 'long_sleeve'
This code accesses and changes the price, color, size, and style attributes directly. Accessing attributes directly would be frowned upon in many other languages, but not in Python. Instead, the general object-oriented programming convention is to use methods to access attributes or change attribute values. These methods are called set and get methods or setter and getter methods.

A get method is for obtaining an attribute value. A set method is for changing an attribute value. If you were writing a Shirt class, you could use the following code:

class Shirt:

    def __init__(self, shirt_color, shirt_size, shirt_style, shirt_price):
        self._price = shirt_price

    def get_price(self):
      return self._price

    def set_price(self, new_price):
      self._price = new_price
Instantiating and using an object might look like the following code:

shirt_one = Shirt('yellow', 'M', 'long-sleeve', 15)
print(shirt_one.get_price())
shirt_one.set_price(10)
In the class definition, the underscore in front of price is a somewhat controversial Python convention. In other languages like C++ or Java, price could be explicitly labeled as a private variable. This would prohibit an object from accessing the price attribute directly like shirt_one._price = 15. Unlike other languages, Python does not distinguish between private and public variables. Therefore, there is some controversy about using the underscore convention as well as get and set methods in Python. Why use get and set methods in Python when Python wasn't designed to use them?

At the same time, you'll find that some Python programmers develop object-oriented programs using get and set methods anyway. Following the Python convention, the underscore in front of price is to let a programmer know that price should only be accessed with get and set methods rather than accessing price directly with shirt_one._price. However, a programmer could still access _price directly because there is nothing in the Python language to prevent the direct access.

To reiterate, a programmer could technically still do something like shirt_one._price = 10, and the code would work. But accessing price directly, in this case, would not be following the intent of how the Shirt class was designed.
One of the benefits of set and get methods is that, as previously mentioned in the course, you can hide the implementation from your user. Perhaps, originally, a variable was coded as a list and later became a dictionary. With set and get methods, you could easily change how that variable gets accessed. Without set and get methods, you'd have to go to every place in the code that accessed the variable directly and change the code.

You can read more about get and set methods in Python on this Python Tutorial site.
Attributes
There are some drawbacks to accessing attributes directly versus writing a method for accessing attributes.

In terms of object-oriented programming, the rules in Python are a bit looser than in other programming languages. As previously mentioned, in some languages, like C++, you can explicitly state whether or not an object should be allowed to change or access an attribute's values directly. Python does not have this option.

Why might it be better to change a value with a method instead of directly? Changing values via a method gives you more flexibility in the long-term. What if the units of measurement change, like if the store was originally meant to work in US dollars and now has to handle Euros? Here's an example:
Example: Dollars versus Euros
If you've changed attribute values directly, you'll have to go through your code and find all the places where US dollars were used, such as in the following:

shirt_one.price = 10 # US dollars
Then, you'll have to manually change them to Euros.

shirt_one.price = 8 # Euros
If you had used a method, then you would only have to change the method to convert from dollars to Euros.


def change_price(self, new_price):
    self.price = new_price * 0.81 # convert dollars to Euros

shirt_one.change_price(10)
For the purposes of this introduction to object-oriented programming, you don't need to worry about updating attributes directly versus with a method; however, if you decide to further your study of object-oriented programming, especially in another language such as C++ or Java, you'll have to take this into consideration.
Modularized code
Thus far in the lesson, all of the code has been in Jupyter Notebooks. For example, in the previous exercise, a code cell loaded the Shirt class, which gave you access to the shirt class throughout the rest of the notebook.

If you were developing a software program, you would want to modularize this code. You would put the Shirt class into its own Python script, which you might call shirt.py. In another Python script, you would import the Shirt class with a line like from shirt import Shirt.

For now, as you get used to OOP syntax, you'll be completing exercises in Jupyter Notebooks. Midway through the lesson, you'll modularize object-oriented code into separate files.

------------------------

Commenting object-oriented code
Did you notice anything special about the answer key in the previous exercise? The Pants class and the SalesPerson class contained docstrings! A docstring is a type of comment that describes how a Python module, function, class, or method works. Docstrings are not unique to object-oriented programming.

For this section of the course, you just need to remember to use docstrings and to comment your code. It will help you understand and maintain your code and even make you a better job candidate.

From this point on, please always comment your code. Use both inline comments and document-level comments as appropriate.

To learn more about docstrings, see Example Google Style Python Docstrings.
Docstrings and object-oriented code
The following example shows a class with docstrings. Here are a few things to keep in mind:

Make sure to indent your docstrings correctly or the code will not run. A docstring should be indented one indentation underneath the class or method being described.
You don't have to define self in your method docstrings. It's understood that any method will have self as the first method input.

class Pants:
    """The Pants class represents an article of clothing sold in a store
    """

    def __init__(self, color, waist_size, length, price):
        """Method for initializing a Pants object

        Args: 
            color (str)
            waist_size (int)
            length (int)
            price (float)

        Attributes:
            color (str): color of a pants object
            waist_size (str): waist size of a pants object
            length (str): length of a pants object
            price (float): price of a pants object
        """

        self.color = color
        self.waist_size = waist_size
        self.length = length
        self.price = price

    def change_price(self, new_price):
        """The change_price method changes the price attribute of a pants object

        Args: 
            new_price (float): the new price of the pants object

        Returns: None

        """
        self.price = new_price

    def discount(self, percentage):
        """The discount method outputs a discounted price of a pants object

        Args:
            percentage (float): a decimal representing the amount to discount

        Returns:
            float: the discounted price
        """
        return self.price * (1 - percentage)
        
        -----------------------------
        
https://youtu.be/TVzNdFYyJIU

Resources for review
The example in the next part of the lesson assumes you are familiar with Gaussian and binomial distributions.

Here are a few formulas that might be helpful:

Gaussian distribution formulas
probability density function

 
Further resources
If you would like to review the Gaussian (normal) distribution and binomial distribution, here are a few resources:

This free Udacity course, Intro to Statistics, has a lesson on Gaussian distributions as well as the binomial distribution.

This free course, Intro to Descriptive Statistics, also has a Gaussian distributions lesson.

There are also relevant Wikipedia articles:

Gaussian Distributions Wikipedia
Binomial Distributions Wikipedia

-----------------------

https://youtu.be/N-5I0d1zJHI

----------------------------

notebook: Gaussian Code Exercise¶

---------------------------

https://youtu.be/9dEsv1aNUEE

https://youtu.be/oDuXThOqans

---------------

notebook: Magic Methods¶

------------------------

https://youtu.be/1gsrxUwPI40

https://youtu.be/uWT-HIHBjv0

------------------

notebook: Inheritance Exercise Clothing

------------------------

https://youtu.be/XS4LQn1VA3U

-------------------------

notebook: Inheritance with the Gaussian Class

------------------------

Advanced OOP topics
Inheritance is the last object-oriented programming topic in the lesson. Thus far you've been exposed to:

Classes and objects
Attributes and methods
Magic methods
Inheritance
Classes, object, attributes, methods, and inheritance are common to all object-oriented programming languages.

Knowing these topics is enough to start writing object-oriented software. What you've learned so far is all you need to know to complete this OOP lesson. However, these are only the fundamentals of object-oriented programming.

Use the following list of resources to learn more about advanced Python object-oriented programming topics.

Python's Instance, Class, and Static Methods Demystified: This article explains different types of methods that can be accessed at the class or object level.
Class and Instance Attributes: You can also define attributes at the class level or at the instance level.
Mixins for Fun and Profit: A class can inherit from multiple parent classes.
Primer on Python Decorators: Decorators are a short-hand way to use functions inside other functions.

----------------------



https://youtu.be/AARS10U5bbo

Windows vs. macOS vs. Linux
Linux, which our Udacity classroom workspaces use, is an operating system like Windows or macOS. One important difference is that Linux is free and open source, while Windows is owned by Microsoft and macOS by Apple.

Throughout the lesson, you can do all of your work in a classroom workspace. These workspaces provide interfaces that connect to virtual machines in the cloud. However, if you want to run this code locally on your computer, the commands you use might be slightly different.

If you are using macOS, you can open an application called Terminal and use the same commands that you use in the workspace. That is because Linux and MacOS are related.

If you are using Windows, the analogous application is called Console. The Console commands can be somewhat different than the Terminal commands. Use a search engine to find the right commands in a Windows environment.

The classroom workspace has one major benefit. You can do whatever you want to the workspace, including installing Python packages. If something goes wrong, you can reset the workspace and start with a clean slate; however, always download your code files or commit your code to GitHub or GitLab before resetting a workspace. Otherwise, you'll lose your code!

